<<<<<<< HEAD
# fractionalization-skytrade

This is a Next.js app containing:

- Tailwind and Shadcn UI for styling
- [Gill](https://gill.site/) Solana SDK
- Shadcn [Wallet UI](https://registry.wallet-ui.dev) components
- A basic Greeter Solana program written in Anchor
- [codama](https://github.com/codama-idl/codama) to generate a JS sdk for the program
- UI components for interacting with the program

## Getting Started

### Installation

#### Download the template

```shell
npx create-solana-dapp@latest -t gh:solana-foundation/templates/gill/fractionalization-skytrade
```

#### Install Dependencies

```shell
npm install
```

## Apps

### anchor

This is a Solana program written in Rust using the Anchor framework.

#### Commands

You can use any normal anchor commands. Either move to the `anchor` directory and run the `anchor` command or prefix the
command with `npm run`, eg: `npm run anchor`.

#### Sync the program id:

Running this command will create a new keypair in the `anchor/target/deploy` directory and save the address to the
Anchor config file and update the `declare_id!` macro in the `./src/lib.rs` file of the program. This will also update
the constant in `anchor/src/basic-exports.ts` file.

```shell
npm run setup
```

#### Build the program:

```shell
npm run anchor-build
```

#### Start the test validator with the program deployed:

```shell
npm run anchor-localnet
```

#### Run the tests

```shell
npm run anchor-test
```

#### Deploy to Devnet

```shell
npm run anchor deploy --provider.cluster devnet
```

### web

This is a React app that uses the Anchor generated client to interact with the Solana program.

#### Commands

Start the app

```shell
npm run dev
```

Build the app

```shell
npm run build
```
=======
# **cNFTs Fractionalization**

---

The core requirements for a fractionalization protocol designed to work with compressed NFTs (for any project utilizing the cNFT standard ([MetaPlex Bubble Gum](https://developers.metaplex.com/bubblegum)). The goal is to enable cNFT owners to split their assets into SPL tokens (fungible fractions), distribute any accrued yield to fraction holders, and support a trustless reclaim mechanism (recovering the underlying cNFT) that respects all token holders fairly.

The protocol must operate in a decentralized, permissionless way, while remaining compatible with Metaplex standards and Solana-native primitives.

---

### **1\. Asset Locking & Fractional Tokenization**

* The protocol must allow a cNFT to be **locked in escrow while fractionalized**, held by a program-derived address (PDA).  
* Upon locking, the PDA **mints a fixed supply of SPL tokens** to represent fractional ownership of the NFT.  
* These SPL tokens ("fractions") are sent to the original cNFT owner, who may freely distribute or sell them.  
* SPL token metadata must **maintain a reference to the original cNFT**..  
* The PDA holds **mint and burn authority**, preventing unauthorized supply changes.

---

### **2\. NFT Reclaim Mechanism**

* Any user holding **80% or more of the total SPL token supply** is eligible to reclaim the original NFT.

* The reclaim flow must:

  * **Burn the reclaimer’s SPL tokens**, and  
  * **Transfer the cNFT** from the PDA escrow to the reclaimer’s wallet.  
  * **Compensate Minority holders (holding \<20%)** **at a fair market rate** for their invalidated tokens.  
* The reclaim price is set on-chain through a decentralized way and must reflect:

  * Historical AMM trading prices (e.g. TWAP),  
  * Yield generated by the asset  
* The reclaim mechanism must be **robust against inactivity**, allowing resolution even if some (all remaining 20%) holders are unreachable.

---

### **3\. Yield Distribution**

* The protocol must support one of two compatible revenue models:

  * **Passive Accumulation**: all yield is stored in the PDA and automatically transferred to the cNFT reclaimer along with the asset.  
  * **Active Distribution**: income is periodically distributed to SPL token holders based on **snapshot ownership data**.


### **4\. Project logistics**

1. SkyTrade Fractionalization is an open source project executed by the community of contributors with the support of [SkyTrade Foundation](https://skytrade.foundation).
2. You can contact us via [opensource@skytrade.foundation](mailto:opensource@skytrade.foundation).
3. All the open discussions are happening on GitHub Discussions here: https://github.com/orgs/SkyTradeLinks/discussions/categories/fractionalization-discussions
>>>>>>> 2a93fb5e4c5c47e2c6ef0dc98320b2f317bbd795
